# CSCI 265 Initial Team Charter

## Team name: MacroHard

## Project/product name: 'Cyber' Cyber City

## Members and contact email

 - Alister Lawson, AlisterLawson64@gmail.com *main contact*
 - Bruce Fernandes, bruce2005.ind@gmail.com *secondary contact*
 - Jamie Mano, jamieysabelmano1018@gmail.com
 - Marek Bettzig, bettzig@hotmail.de
 - Nick Biagioni, viud2l_1061684@d2l.viu.ca

## Project intro

Our project involves making a digital 3D simulation of an arcade from the 1990s in Canada. It would include games like pool, slider games, shooting games, etc. 

It was a thought initially made to host other developer's games and just build a platform, but the team decided to implement and develop the games on our own instead. We are aiming high within the aspects of the projects which involve making the 3D environment of the arcade room and making 4 or more games as well. However, it can be cut down to simpler terms to be able to focus on delivering the product itself.

## Team philosophy

Most of the team wanted to develop a game since the start of the semester, hence this became the major driving force on this project. Another factor to consider is the inspiration from learning to use Godot to build games.

With the interest in incorporating 3D in the project, we initially thought of involving three.js, but we decided to scale it down first to not create challenges from the beginning of the project itself. The aim for this and the goal the team wants to achieve is to be able to develop a game and learn how to use Godot. Being able to implement past coding knowledge and improve our programming skills. Lastly, is important to be able to collaborate as a team, be comfortable working with one another, and provide an open space for everyone to learn and have fun.

## Team roles/responsibilities

We are working under a one-leader system with Alister as the team lead. The conversations will be democratic, however, if a consensus cannot be reached, Allister will make the final choice.

Everyone is allowed to raise their concern and suggestions and is encouraged to speak up within group discussions and meetings. We made sure that everyone was available on a certain date to contribute to the project. But, the final decision would be up to the team leader.

The team would meet in a designated location set up by Alister every Tuesday and Thursday of the week, for at least 2-3 hours each day. The first couple of minutes of Tuesdays will be allotted to recalling past tasks we did and the progress of the project. Then the rest would be discussing our part and making amends or catching up. Thursdays would be dedicated to learning Godot as a group, it would be hosted by Alister or Nick so everyone on the team would be on the same page. The rest of the workload would be then taken home as assignments.

The roles will be listed as follows:

 - Alister:​
	- programmer​
	- lead project design
	- understudy visual design
 - Bruce:​
	- lead programmer
	- understudy version control​
	- understudy godot specialist
	- lead audio design
 - Jamie:​
	- programmer
	- lead visual design
	- lead user interface design
	- understudy project organization
 - Nick:​
	- programmer​
	- lead Godot specialist
	- understudy audio design
 - Marek:​
	- programmer​
	- lead project organization
 	- lead version control​	
	- understudy project design

Any secondary tasks like support or preparing deliverables would be given to the person Alister would assign to or if someone would volunteer. We will respect time outside the project's scope and another course schedule as well.

## Planned team meeting time(s) and communication plans

As stated above, the meeting times would be every Tuesday, at 11:30 onwards, and Thursdays at 11:30 onwards. Everyone must participate for the first hour of the tuesday meeting then it will officially be adjurned but, members may want to stay longer to finish tasks, however; they are not obligated to do so.

We are planning to communicate outside this meeting using Discord since the team decided that this is the best way to connect because everyone has it. Any additional meetings like an online Discord call would be stated after the in-person meeting or if is raised as an emergency on Discord. Each meeting would have its agenda for recap, discussion, and progress.
An agenda will be generated by lead project organizer based on project member input and the project schedule. 

Overall, the regular meetings would be held in the library and on the days of the week stated in the previous paragraph.

## Deadlines and Deliverables

Team members will volunteer to do tasks that fall into their skills and expertise. for general documentation tasks Lead of project organization will delegate tasks equally to all team members. Organizational lead will also post deadlines and tasks for team members to complete using the Github porject management feature.

If a deadline is unmet or undeliverable for whatever reason there will be a discussion between project organization lead and the team member involved and an appropriate resolution will be found.

## Conflict resolution scheme

Conflicts will be resolved democratically and issues unable to be solved with be decided by the project lead, Alister. If left unresolved, it will be taken to the Professor for steps to be taken.

Concerns should be brought up during the meeting or if neccessary brought up to project lead over private message.
To avoid possible conflicts within the group and adress problems before they spiral out of control.

Tuesday's meeting can also bring up any concerns and Thursday's meeting can offer support for any issues.

## AI Policy

None of the projects code or assets are to be generated with AI.​

Using AI for non-generative purposes, investigatory, learning, etc., is each individual team member's prerogative.

## Intellectual property rights

All members will retain rights to what content they create. Content that is created by multiple people will be the property of all members involved.

The team are welcome to have this program in their portfolios but no other use of the code and program are allowed to be used for any purpose without the consent of all the members.

## Discussion of team strengths/weaknesses

It could become challenging to stay on task, especially with Bruce's friendly demeanor, but Organizational lead's (Marek) duty will be to maintain organization of the project. Not all of us have experience in Godot, but with Nick being on our team, it would balance the weakness out.

The group all have experience in programming and coding before and are able to collaborate in groups

An overall breakdown of the team's strengths are listed below:

 - Nick and Alister are both good Godot programmers.
 - Bruce is a well-driven mathematical solver and is good at programming.
 - Jamie and Marek are organizational managers
 - Jamie has great visual and artistic skills and is currently taking CSCI 310 alongside Marek

On the other hand, the team's lacking are as follows:
 - not everyone has decent game development experience and Godot
 - lacking of artistic power
 - everyone is passionate about game coding and conversation can quickly take time away from the project.

In conclusion, everyone balances each other out and we are taking each step carefully to not let anyone go beyond their skills and capabilities which might make a team feel overwhelmed or burned out. 


